                                                                               79
General Overview of a Kernel
----------------------------

Primary functions of a kernel can be divided into two functions:
1. Managing hardware by allocating its resources for the programs running on it
2. Supplying a set of system services for those programs

Basic unit of a program's environmment is the process. The process is made up of
a number of threads which executes independently within the process' environment.

Illumos Kernel Architecture
---------------------------

The kernel is grouped in to several key components and is implemented in a
modular fashion:

* System call interface - allows user processes to access kernel facilities.
* Process execution and scheduling - process management facilities enable
  process creation, execution, management and termination.
* Memory management - the virtual memory system manages mapping of physical
  memory to user processes and the kernel.
* Resource management - contains the infrastructure and administrative
  framework for allocating specific system resources (processor, memory,
  network) to applications.
* File systems - implements a virtual file system framework, by which multiple
  types of file systems can be configured into the Illumos kernel at the same
  time.
* I/O bus and device management - implements bus nexus node drivers and device
  drivers as a hierarchy of modules, reflecting the physical layout of the
  bus/device interconnect.
* Kernel facilities (clocks, timers, etc.) - central kernel facilities include
  regular clock interrupts, system timers, synchronization primitives, and
  loadable module support.
* Networking - provides complete IPv4 and IPv6 support, socket-based interfaces
  for network programming, and the traditional STREAMS framework for insertion
  of custom modules in the protocol stack.

The kernel supports 7 types of loadable kernel modules:

1. Schedular Classes - TS, RT. FX, FSS
2. File Systems - UFS, NFS, PROCFS
3. Loadable System Calls - shmsys, semsys, msgsys
4. Executable Formats - ELF, COFF
5. Streams Modules - pipemod, idterm
6. Misc Modules - NFSSRV, IPC
7. Device and Bus Drivers - SBus, PCI, sd

Processes, Threads and Scheduling
---------------------------------

The kernel thread is the core unti of execution management by the Illumos kernel.

* Kernel threads - object that gets scheduled and executed on a processor.
* User threads - user-level (non-kernel) thread state maintained within a user
  process.
* Process - executable form of a program; the execution environment for a user
  program.
* Lightweight process (LWP) - kernel-visible execution context for a user thread.

Global Process Priorities and Scheduling
----------------------------------------

There exists 170 global priorities in the kernel. The priority name space is
partitioned by different scheduling classes.

TS - Timeshare - default class for processes and all the kernel threads within
     the process. Range 0 - 59.
IA - Interactive - enhanced TS class used by desktop windowing systems. Range
     0 - 59.
FSS - Fair share scheduler - share-based, not priority-based.
FX - Fixed-priority - threads in the FX class do not have their priority changed.
SYS - System class - used by the kernel for kernel threads. Range 60 - 99.
RT - Real-time - implements fixed-priority, fixed-time-quantum scheduling.
     Range 100 - 159.

RT class threads will preempt operating system kernel threads.


